# Greenify - Climate Web Application 
___

What is Greenify?
-------------
**Greenify**, is a web application created with the aim to raise awareness about climate change and how human activity can have a devastating effect on the planet. 
We want to offer users the chance to make an impact and help contribute to the overall reduction of greenhouse gas 
emissions in order to reach the UK's goal of cutting down territorial emissions to net-zero by 2050. 

Functionality
-------------
This website will count with a **Home** page which will serve to welcome the user along with the following menu bar: Home, Feed, Donate, Events, Carbon Calculator, Admin, Contact us and Users.<br>

The access to all the above will be restricted to only registered users, which means that anonymous users (i.e. not logged in) will only be able to access the Home, Register and Login links and pages.

- **Feed** - It is a dropdown menu with two subsections: **Posts** and **Challenges** pages.
  - **Posts** - It is the user’s learning space, where they will be able to find useful information and fun facts about different aspects related to climate change.
  - **Challenges** - It displays a range of challenges related to food, travel, nature and energy as well as include a button to join in so that everyone can feel included and part of the cause.
- **Donate** - It displays the information about a carbon reducing project to which users can choose to donate any amount 
of money they see convenient.<br> 
_WARNING: PLEASE ENTER £100+ & card no. 42424242424 FOR TESTING PURPOSES._ 
- **Events** - This page shows any events related to climate action which are being hosted nearby the user’s location. 
can create and announce about any event in order to find more people who would like to collaborate into making a positive impact.
- **Carbon Calculator** - It will allow users to calculate their own Carbon Footprint by answering a series of questions. 
The results will indicate the total amount of greenhouse gases that are generated by the user’s actions. 
- **Admin** - It's access will be restricted just to the user with the ‘admin role, and it will include a dropdown menu with the following links and pages:
  - **Admin Panel** - The place where the administrator can manage and monitor all registered users as well as their activity information (last 10 log entries).
  - **New Donation** - Form to create a new donation.
  - **New Challenge** - Form to create a new challenge.
  - **New Post** - Form to create a new post.
  - **New Event** - Form to create a new event.
- **Contact Us** - Form to send feedback or contact Greenify team.
- **Users** - Dropdown menu with the following links and pages:
  - **Profile** - Contains the user’s information inputted in the register form as well as a list of the challenges they have joined.
  - **Register** - Register form.
  - **Log in** - Login form.
  - **Log out** - Logout link.

Running the application
---------------------------

###Running from the command line.

1. Open the command line and navigate to the directory where `app.py` is stored.
2. Install requirements with `pip install -r requirements.txt` (consider using a virtual environment)
3. Set up the database with `python -c "import models; models.init_db()"`, if you get a malformed disk error, delete `greenify.db` and retry.
4. Set up the Google Maps api key with `set GMAP-KEY=API-KEY` (api key provided in code submission files under GMAP-KEY.txt)
5. Start the web server with `python app.py`

### Run Configuration

This project is run using a **standard Python run configuration**, this one should be created as follows:

1. In PyCharm's main menu select Run -> Edit Configurations...
2. In the Run/Debug Configurations dialog box select + in top left corner.
3. Scroll down list and select Python. You should see a new Python run configuration appear on left side called Unnamed.
4. Next to Script path, click the small folder icon and select the `app.py` file from the project directory dialog box.
5. The name app should also automatically appear in the field Name at top of dialog box.
6. Select Apply and OK.
7. Click Run button.

What does this repository contain?
---------------------------
###Repository's URL

URL to team 19's web application repository - <a href='https://github.com/CSC2033-team-19/ClimateWebApp'>ClimateWebApp Repository</a>

###Backend

- Flask API - <a href='https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.0.x/'>Flask Repository</a>.
- Stripe API - <a href='https://stripe.com/docs/api?lang=python'>Stripe</a>.<br>
`Install stripe package -> sudo pip install --upgrade stripe.`
- Google maps API - <a href='https://developers.google.com/maps/documentation'>Google Maps Platform Documentation</a>.<br>
- CKEditor API - <a href='https://ckeditor.com/docs/ckeditor4/latest/index.html'>CKEditor 4 Documentation</a>.<br>
`pip install flask-ckeditor`
- ChartJS API - <a href="https://www.chartjs.org/docs/3.5.0/developers/api.html">ChartJS API</a>
- <a href='https://www.sqlite.org/index.html'>SQLite</a>
- <a href='https://www.sqlalchemy.org'>SQLAlchemy</a>